---------------------------
Build 1.0.0.84 - 04/22/2009
---------------------------

Added lots of new sound effects and programmable sound options.

Health sensor can now sense zero points, allowing characters to sense their own demise.

Numerous improvements to AI (artificial intelligence) and physics movement.

Persistent options for:
	Displaying or hiding tool tips.
	Volume controls for UI, Effects, and Music.
	Inverting joysticks.
	
Some new experimental terrain textures. Let us know what you think.

---------------------------
Build 1.0.0.81 - 04/06/2009
---------------------------

---------------------------
Build 1.0.0.80 - 04/06/2009
---------------------------

Objects blocking the camera, or which the camera is passing through now appear 
ghosted out, to avoid interfering with level creation or game play.

There's a new projectile type for shooting things, called a blip. When programming
a bot to shoot, you pick out which type of projectile to launch. The old cruise
missles are smarter, and can seek out targets. The new blips only shoot straight,
but you can have a lot more of them. Which is appropriate depends on the kind
of game play you are trying to create.

The height limit on terrain has been raised significantly, so you can make
taller and/or steeper landscapes.

---------------------------
Build 1.0.0.79 - 04/03/2009
---------------------------

Fixed a startup crash that was occurring on some non-English locales.

Un-do and Re-do. After every edit, on getting back to the tool
menu, a new snapshot is taken. You can un-do your changes to get
back to a previous snapshot, and after undoing a change you can
re-do it.

Health Sensor - Characters can now react to changes in their health, though
they cannot yet react to zero health. This will be a feature of a later build.

Cardinal Movement Constraints - You can limit a character to moving along
a N/S or E/W line. Useful for creating side-scrollers.

Launch Action - You can now create something and kick it all in one statement:

	Creates an apple and kicks it once per second:
	when timer 1-second : do launch apple
	
Expanded Reset Options - You can now choose what you want the Reset action to affect:
	- The entire world (except scores)
	- One or all scores
	- Your glow
	- Your health
	- Your expression

Saucers and Wisps can be programmed to fly upward and downward.

New time option: 0.25 seconds. Allows finer control of timers.

New Main Menu item: Learning - Shows the load screen filtered on Lessons.

New programing group: View - Controls camera behavior in code. You can tell
the camera to follow your character, ignore it, or go to first-person view.

--------------------------
Build 1.0.0.77 - 3/20/2009
--------------------------

When a character eats something, it generates a "got" event:
- bump apple : eat
- got apple : score

Characters may now be moved with the gamepad triggers and buttons.
- gamepad a-button : move
- gamepad left-trigger : move turn left
- gamepad right-trigger : move turn right

Added cardinal direction options (North, South, East, West) to these
actions: Move, Turn, Kick, and Shoot.
- always : move north.
- see boku : move turn south.
- bump apple : kick west.
	
Added "up" and "down" options to Kick.
- bump apple : kick up.

Added "up", "down", and "up/down" options to the Move action, though they
are not available to all characters.
- controller left-stick : move up/down.

The "once" option now applies to timers.
- timer 1 sec : shoot (shoots only one missile, after waiting for 1 second)

The stickboy character can now turn.
- see nothing : turn quickly.

Add "toward" option to the Turn action.
- see turtle : move turn toward.

Added "left" and "right" options to the Turn and Circle actions.
- see boku : move circle left.

Added a profany filter for user-inputted text.

Extend icons in text to include all the bots.  So you can now type
<boku> to get a Boku icon in your text.  This works with both the
level description text and the "say" verb text.
Available icons are:
    apple, balloon, blimp, boat, boku, bullet, castle, cloud, coin, cursor,
    drum, factory, fastbot, flyfish, heart, hut, jet, mine, missile, pad,
    puck, rock, satellite, saucer, star, stick, sub, swimfish, terracannon,
    tree, turtle and wisp.
Some also have other, popular aliases: fastbot == cycle, stick == stickboy,
    apple == fruit, satellite == sputnik

New object type, the light. You only get up to eight of them, so use
them wisely. They can be placed in a scene or programmed to move about
like any other robot type. When running with Shader Model 3, they
illuminate the world around them. Their range and intensity can be
controlled from the Object Settings Menu.

The UI for paths, roads, walls, and floral trails has been entirely
overhauled. In addition to new road and wall types, as well as incremental
improvements, it now supports moving and deleting entire paths, as well as
nodes and edges within the graph.

Path edges between nodes can be made directional, so that robots following
that path will only move in one direction. This is particularly valuable for
setting up racing loops. The conic glyphs at the center of the edge, shown
when the edge or entire path is highlighted, indicate the direction of travel
allowed. Default is still to allow travel in both directions.

The game will pause and present a warning when a controller comes unplugged 
(or uncharged). It waits for a button press before continuing, giving the
option to plug back in or continue without.

A lot of work improving the underlying physics behavior, which will allow
more intuitive dynamics use in games. 

Lack of a gamepad is now detected and warned against. On the PC side, it
also gives an option of hitting <Esc> to exit the program.

--------------------------
Build 1.0.0.74 - 3/04/2009
--------------------------

The fonts have been extended to include the Latin Extended-A block of unicode
characters.  For people doing localization this means we now support unicode
chars 0020 through 017F.

Fixed a bug in the score sensor that was causing scoreboard changes to be missed
some percentage of the time. This was a framerate dependent issue: the better
your system performance, the more broken scoring would be for you.

--------------------------
Build 1.0.0.72 - 3/02/2009
--------------------------

Budgets for how much can be put into a level. When the thermometer goes to
red, you run out and can't add any more object or terrain to the level.

The programming examples help can now be accessed from anywhere in the programming UI.
When your cursor is over a tile press <Y> to access the help.

In the programming UI you can no longer explicitely insert rows.  If you have no blank
rows a new one will be inserted for you.  You can then move it to where you need it
by picking it up on the row handle (cursor allt eh way left, press <A> to pick up / put down).

If your level ends with "Game Over" or "Winner" you can now restart the game by
pressing the <A> button.

Cloned objects are now placed exactly where the cursor is instead of off to the side.
We temporarily turn off the collision testing so they don't immediately get pushed
out of the way.  This allows you to more accurately place objects.

Entering Pause mode is now harder to do which means that it is less likely to happen
accidentally.  To enter Pause you must press both triggers and both stick-buttons
at the same time.   Exiting pause mode just requires pressing <A>.  The stick-buttons
are the buttons built into the analog joysticks which can be pressed straight down.

The help system should now pick examples that better match the tiles you are programming.

The "Eat" verb now generates a "Got" event, this means your characters can now react
directly to eating something. For example, this program will make your character jump
after eating an apple:

  - when see apple : do eat
  - when got apple : do jump

When you put your cursor under a character while editing your level, it will "say" its
name briefly in a thought balloon. These names are auto-generated, and are unique.
Character names show up on the creatable pie menu as well, helping to differentiate
between creatable characters of the same type.

--------------------------
Build 1.0.0.71 - 2/11/2009
--------------------------

Level browsing screens now scroll continuously instead of having move page-by-page.

Level browsing screens now populate faster by loading thumbnail images in the background.

Changed Random timer to work properly.  Previously it would only result in 
times in integer units of seconds.  Now it results in fractions of seconds.

Added ToolTips to the programming UI and the AddItem menu.  The descriptions
in the AddItem menu are currently missing but should show up when we change
over from using 3D models in the menu to using the tile icons.

Large scale terrain rendering optimization, removes performance penalty for using
many different terrain materials within a level.

Support for user specified save folder (academic build only). This is helpful in
computer lab settings to assist with backups, or where local drive space is limited
and networked storage is required. Current behavior is:
* Use BokuSettings to override save folder to your required destination.
	** Clear the folder name to <blank> to reset to default location in User\Documents\...
	** Typically administrator runs once on setting up machines, then deletes BokuSetup.
* There's a login at Boku startup that defaults to windows user name, but allows a name
	to be specified. 
	** This login determines all identity for mathing levels to creators.
	** Ideally the same unique ID used for surveys is used for logins.
	** There is no password protection.
* You can't delete a level unless you are the creator or an admin.
* Saving a level that you didn't create forks off a new version of the level with
	the same name but you as the creator.
* Show Only My Worlds only shows levels you created, regardless of folder contents.
* There's a new tag, "Finished". The idea is that when you are ready for other people
	to look at your level, you mark it Finished. Then doing a Show Only Finished will 
	only show the levels you want to show. Very useful when demo-ing, so you don't have
	to sift through your rough drafts to get to your masterpieces.


--------------------------
Build 1.0.0.70 - 2/2/2009
--------------------------

Fixed crash at startup: "An item with the same key has already been added."

Added the ability to include button icons in the text used by the 'say' verb.  In 
the text editor you can type <a> and it will be replaced with the icon for the 
A button.  If you want you can also spell out the name <a button>.  The full list
of button icons you can use are:
<a> A button
<b> B button
<x> X button
<y> Y button
<lt> left trigger
<rt> right trigger
<lb> left bumper (shoulder button)
<rb> right bumper
<ls> left stick
<rs> right stick
<back> back button
<start> start button

--------------------------
Build 1.0.0.69 - 1/26/2009
--------------------------

    Added the 'say' verb.  This allows your robots to display a text message to the user.
To use the 'say' verb you need to add it to your program and then press A to enter
the text of the message you want to have displayed.  There are three options for 
how the text is displayed:  
    The first is fullscreen.  When this is activated the game will be paused and the full 
text message will be displayed.  If the message is too long to fit into the window you 
can scroll through it using the left stick.
    The second and third display modes are Thought Balloons.  These display your message
in a balloon above the robot's head while the game continues.  Since there is a limited
amount of space in the balloon these will only display a single line of text.  You can
choose to have this line selected either sequentially or randomly.
    You can also add a color tile after the 'say' verb.  This will set the color of the 
border for the Thought Balloons.  The default color is black.

	Sensors for robots to sense what kind of terrain or water they are on.
	Without modifiers, the sensors fire if the robot is over any kind of land or water.
To only fire on specific types of land or water, add a type filter. The type filter will
bring up the same terrain and water cube pickers used in editing the terrain. 
	To see what type of terrain is currently specified in a program, hit A on that type 
tile, and the cube picker will pop up with the correct type selected.
	The Once modifier also works, so When On-Land None, Do Explode would have the robot
self destruct whenever it leaves the terrain.

Added "X" button to the gamepad programming menu.

--------------------------
Build 1.0.0.68 - 1/13/2009
--------------------------

Added prototype debug visualization options for things seen and heard.

Fixed crash on startup with error message:
"Device does not support multi-level texture width and height values that are not powers of 2."
