
Microsoft Kodu Game Lab Privacy Statement

Last updated: November 2013
Microsoft Kodu Game Lab (“Kodu”) is a visual programming language specifically for creating games. It is designed to be accessible and enjoyable for anyone.  This privacy statement governs your use of the Kodu websites and software that point to it.  It does not apply to other online or offline Microsoft applications, sites, products, or services.  
Collection and Use of Your Information
Microsoft does not intentionally collect personal information or contact information from users of Kodu.  You may visit the Kodu website and download and use the Kodu software without signing in or providing any personal information.  If you choose to sign in to the Community experience (see below) you may manage a Kodu Game Lab Community profile, rate uploaded games, and leave comments (which may be moderated by Microsoft).  If you sign in with a Microsoft account, we do not collect any additional personal information beyond that used to create the Microsoft account (see below).  If you choose to sign in with a Facebook account, we do not collect or store any personal information -- we do not record your name, your email address, your friends, followers or other information that might be made available to us by the Facebook service.  Nor will we post anything to the Facebook service without asking you first.  
Any information we collect from you will be used by Microsoft and its controlled subsidiaries and affiliates to enable the features you are using and provide the service(s) or carry out the transaction(s) you have requested or authorized.  It may also be used to analyze and improve Microsoft products and services.  In order to offer you a more consistent and personalized experience in your interactions with Microsoft, information collected through one Microsoft service may be combined with information obtained through other Microsoft services. We may also supplement the information we collect with information obtained from other companies.
Microsoft may access or disclose information about you in order to: (a) comply with the law or respond to lawful requests or legal process; (b) protect the rights or property of Microsoft or our customers, including the enforcement of our agreements or policies governing your use of the services; or (c) act on a good faith belief that such access or disclosure is necessary to protect the personal safety of Microsoft employees, customers, or the public.
Information that is collected by or sent to Microsoft by Kodu may be stored and processed in the United States or any other country in which Microsoft or its affiliates, subsidiaries, or service providers maintain facilities. Microsoft abides by the safe harbor framework as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce regarding the collection, use, and retention of data from the European Union, the European Economic Area, and Switzerland. 
Collection and Use of Information about Your Computer
When you use software with Internet-enabled features, information about your computer ("standard computer information") is sent to the websites you visit and online services you use.  Microsoft uses standard computer information to provide you Internet-enabled services, to help improve our products and services, and for statistical analysis.  Standard computer information typically includes information such as your IP address, operating system version, browser version, and regional and language settings. In some cases, standard computer information may also include hardware ID, which indicates the device manufacturer, device name, and version. If a particular feature or service sends information to Microsoft, standard computer information will be sent as well.  
Cookies and Similar Technologies
The Kodu website uses "cookies," small text files that can be read by a web server in the domain that put the cookie on your device.  We use cookies on the Kodu website solely to assist with the operation of the site (for example, to store your preferences and settings and help with sign-in) and to analyze site operations.  The cookies on the Kodu website are not used to track users across unaffiliated websites or to place advertisements.  We may also use web beacons to help deliver cookies and compile analytics. These may include third-party web beacons, which are prohibited from collecting your personal information.

You may use tools to control cookies and similar technologies, including browser controls to block and delete cookies and controls from some analytics providers to opt out of data collection in web beacons.  If you block cookies, however, certain features and functions may not work as intended.
Microsoft Account
Microsoft account (formerly known as Windows Live ID and Microsoft Passport) is a service that allows you to sign into Microsoft products, web sites and services, as well as those of select Microsoft partners.  When you create a Microsoft account, we ask you to provide certain information.  When you sign into a site or service using your Microsoft account, we collect certain information in order to verify your identity on behalf of the site or service, to protect you from malicious account usage, and to protect the efficiency and security of the Microsoft account service.  

Children under the age of 13 may establish a Microsoft account with parental consent.  When consent is granted, the child's account is treated much like any other account. The child may have access to communication services like e-mail, instant messaging, and online message boards and may be able to communicate freely with other users of all ages.  Parents can change or revoke the consent choices previously made, and review, edit or request the deletion of their children's personal information.  For example, on Windows Live, parents can visit their Account, and click on "Parental Permissions". 

To view additional details about Microsoft account, including how to create and use a Microsoft account, how to edit account information, and how we collect and use information relating to a Microsoft account, please click here.
Use of Kodu by Children
Although Kodu may be used by children under the age of 13, the software is designed for all ages so children under 13 are not the primary Kodu audience.  Any user can visit the Kodu website or download the Kodu software without signing in.  However, when a user chooses to sign in, we age-screen the user by requiring either a Microsoft account or a Facebook account.  (Microsoft accounts require parental consent for children who identify themselves as under 13.  Facebook does not allow the establishment of a Facebook account by children under 13.)  We will not knowingly ask children under 13 to provide more information than is necessary to provide the service. 
Contests
Microsoft may, from time to time, support contests related to Kodu.  In those instances, a third-party may provide the operational support, judging, and prize awards.  In those cases, entrants may be required to submit personal information to facilitate determinations and eligibility and prize delivery.  Where applicable, minors will be required to obtain parental consent before submitting their entries and/or personal information.  Such contests will be governed by the privacy statement of the third-party running the contests – not this privacy statement.  
Security of your information
Microsoft is committed to helping protect the security of your information. We use a variety of security technologies and procedures to help protect your information from unauthorized access, use, or disclosure. For example, we store the information you provide on computer systems with limited access, which are located in controlled facilities. 
Changes to this privacy statement
We will occasionally update this privacy statement to reflect changes in our products, services, and customer feedback. When we post changes, we will revise the "last updated" date at the top of this statement. If there are material changes to this statement or in how Microsoft will use your personal information, we will notify you either by posting a notice of such changes prior to implementing the change or by directly sending you a notification. We encourage you to periodically review this statement to be informed of how Microsoft is protecting your information.
For More Information
Microsoft welcomes your comments regarding this privacy statement. If you have questions about this statement or believe that we have not adhered to it, please contact us at koduprivacy@microsoft.com <mailto:koduprivacy@microsoft.com>. 
Kodu Privacy
Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, Washington 98052 USA
 
Specific features  

The remainder of this document will address the following specific features:
Send Usage Information
What This Feature Does: 
“Send Usage Information,” also known as the Customer Experience Improvement Program (“CEIP”), collects basic information about your hardware configuration and how you use our software and services in order to identify trends and usage patterns. CEIP also collects the type and number of errors you encounter, software and hardware performance, and the speed of services.  We will not collect your name, address, or other contact information.
Information Collected, Processed, or Transmitted:  
For more information about the information collected, processed, or transmitted by CEIP, see the CEIP privacy statement at <http://www.microsoft.com/products/ceip/EN-US/privacypolicy.mspx>. 
Use of Information:
We use this information to improve the quality, reliability, and performance of Microsoft software and services.
Choice/Control:  
You are offered the opportunity to participate in CEIP during setup.   You can choose to disable CEIP at any time in the In Games Option screen.
 
Check for Updates 
What This Feature Does:
“Check for Updates” notifies you when new versions of Kodu are available for download, and gives you the option to install the most recent version.
Information Collected, Processed, or Transmitted:
If Check for Updates is enabled, your system will periodically send details about your version of Kodu to Microsoft. If your version is not the most recent version available, Kodu will notify you that a more recent version exists, and give you the option of installing it.       
Use of Information: 
The version information collected will be used to determine whether there is a more recent version of Kodu available to you.
Choice/Control: 
You are offered the opportunity to Check for Updates during setup.  You can choose to disable Check for Updates at any time in the In Games Option screen.
 
Community Feature 
What this feature does:

Allows the user to share a game he/she has created with other Kodu users (the “Community”), all from within Kodu.  Basic information about the level will be provided including a creator, a description of the game, game version number and tags (all settable when the game is saved).
 
Community

All games submitted to the community will also be viewable from the website at http://KoduGameLab.com and on the Microsoft Fuse Labs site at http://so.cl/ .  Games may be submitted to the Community without signing in, in which case the “creator” associated with the game may be assigned by your device (e.g., a device profile name).  Users may also elect to submit to the community while signed in with their Microsoft account or Facebook account credentials. 

As previously noted, signed in users may also manage their Kodu Game Lab Community profile, rate uploaded games, and leave comments.  This feature is entirely optional.
 
Use of this information:

This information will be used to help other users locate potential games of interest. In addition, Microsoft may analyze the game content for the purposes of understanding how Kodu is used and improving Kodu and other educational software.  (For example, we may analyze content to learn which computer science concepts are being successfully expressed in Kodu’s language, and which may need improvement.)  Microsoft may share the analysis with others, such as educational institutions and researchers, for the purposes mentioned above.  Activities on the website are also monitored, in an effort to help us improve the service.  No personal information is included in the data used for analysis and research.
 
Choice/Control:

Users who do not share games with the community will not be visible there.  Microsoft does not track or otherwise monitor which games users download.
 

